---
layout: post
title:  Bayesian Network - Monte Carlo Markov Chain
---

In layman's terms, __Monte Carlo__ __Markov Chain__ is a method to sample from a population that has a complicate probability distribution.

**Monte Carlo**
The Monte Carlo method relies on repeated random sampling to obtain numerical results. The idea is to use **randomness** to solve problems that might be **deterministic** in principle.

Monte Carlo looks at the results of rolling the die many times and tallies the results to determine the probabilities of different states. It is a method based on small observations. The die has a state space of six, one for each side.

Imagine that you're a gambler in a sketchy casino and you roll a six-sided die without knowing if it is fair or biased. You roll it 100 times and counted the number of times it gave you a four, and divide it by 100. If this gives you a probability close to 16.7 (1/6 * 100), the die is likely fair.

The states in a Monte Carlo problem could be letters in the Roman alphabet, which has a state space of 26 ('e' is usually the most frequently occuring letter in English). They could be weather conditions (sunny, rainy, cloudy), stock prices(rises and falls), pixel colours in an image file. These are all **systems of discrete states that can occur in sequences**.

**Systems and States**

A systems is a set of things connected together / a set of states, where each state is a condition of the system (e.g. A graph, where each state is a vertex, and each transition is an edge).

A state is an abstraction used to describe discrete, separable, things.
 * states: cities on a map, system: map.  A road trip strings the cities (states) together in transitions.
 * states: words in a language, system: paragraph. A sentence is a series of transitions from word to word.
 * states: webpages on internet, system: Internet. Links are transitions.
 * states: bank accounts, system: Group of transactions. Transactions are the transitions.
 * states: emotions, system: . Mood swings are transitions.
 * states: social media profiles, system: social media network. Follows, likes, messages, friending are transitions.
 * states: rooms, system: house. People walking through doorways are transitions.

A list of all possible states is known as the “state space.” The more states you have, the larger the state space gets, and the more complex your combinatorial problem becomes.

**Markov Chain** is a probabilistic way to traverse a system of states. It traces a series of transitions from one state to another. It’s a random walk across a graph. Traversing a Markov chain, you’re not sampling with a God’s-eye view any more like a conquering alien.

So if we were to take an infinite number of road trips in America, it would slowly give us a picture of the country as a whole, and the network that links its cities together. This is known as an equilibrium distribution. That is, given infinite random walks through a state space, you can come to know how much total time would be spent in any given state. If this condition holds, you can use Monte Carlo methods to initiate randoms “draws”, or walks through the state space, in order to sample it.

Reference: https://skymind.ai/wiki/markov-chain-monte-carlo
